+++
title = '2024 08 07_151508'
date = 2024-08-07T15:15:08-04:00
+++

> Many are the wonders, none  
> is more wonderful than what is man.  
> This it is that crosses the sea  
> with the south winds storming and the waves swelling,  
> breaking around him in roaring surf.  
> He it is again who wears away  
> the Earth, oldest of gods, immortal, unwearied,  
> as the ploughs wind across her from year to year  
> when he works her with the breed that comes from horses.  
> The tribe of the lighthearted birds he snares  
> and takes prisoner the races of savage beasts  
> and the brood of the fish of the sea,  
> with the close-spun web of nets.  
> A cunning fellow is man. His contrivances  
> make him master of beasts of the field  
> and those that move in the mountains.  
> So he brings the horse with the shaggy neck  
> to bend underneath the yoke;  
> and also the untamed mountain bull·  
> and speech and winds wift thought  
> and the tempers that go with city living  
> he has taught himself, and how to avoid  
> the sharp frost, when lodging is cold  
> under the open sky  
> and pelting strokes of the rain.  
> He has a way against everything,  
> and he faces nothing that is to come  
> without contrivance.  
> Only against death  
> can he call on no means of escape;  
> but escape from hopeless diseases  
> he has found in the depths of his mind.  
> With some sort of cunning, inventive  
> beyond all expectation  
> he reaches sometimes evil  
> and sometimes good.  
> If he honors the laws of earth,  
> and the justice of the gods he has confirmed by oath,  
> high is his city; no city  
> has he with whom dwells his honor  
> prompted by recklessness.  
> He who is so, may he never  
> share my hearth!  
> may he never think my thoughts!  

Sophocles, _Antigone_ 332-75. (tr. Lattimore)