+++
title = "2026-01-29"
date = 2026-01-29T05:00:00-04:00
+++

> Philosophy is the science of Life. Its problem is to find the Ultimate from
> which we may explain the origin of man and nature, determine the laws of
> their growth, obtain a presentiment of their destiny, and become inspired
> with a pure and noble zeal to live and die for the glory of God, and the
> progress of mankind.

> There is and can be no higher problem than this, none more worthy to engage
> the whole force of our minds and our hearts. It is the problem of problems;
> it includes all other problems; and on its solution depend all other problems
> for theirs. We have answered no question, whether of man or nature, of
> society, religion, or morals, till we have traced it to the Ultimate, beyond
> which there is no question to be asked, or to be answered.

> But the Ultimate for ever escapes us. It recedes always in proportion as we
> advance; and is never seized save in a finite and relative form. The complete
> solution, therefore, transcends, and for ever must transcend, the reach of
> our powers. All that we can do, and all that we should attempt, is to obtain
> the solution that shall meet the wants and satisfy the heart of our own
> epoch. This solution, though it must one day needs be outgrown, as we outgrow
> the garments of our childhood, will, nevertheless, bring us a measure of
> peace, become the point of departure for new inquirers, and pave the way for
> new and more adequate solutions.


Orestes Brownson. "Synthetic Philosophy"
