The attempt at building [niri](https://github.com/YaLTeR/niri) for development
got me reading a [Rust book](https://rust-book.cs.brown.edu/foreword.html)...

> the Rust programming language is fundamentally about empowerment: no matter
> what kind of code you are writing now, Rust empowers you to reach farther, to
> program with confidence in a wider variety of domains than you did before.

> Rust isn’t limited to low-level systems programming. It’s expressive and
> ergonomic enough to make CLI apps, web servers, and many other kinds of code
> quite pleasant to write

---

On the topic of 'infrastructure as code' there arises the organizational
question of whether to put everything in one repository (e.g. all the
infrastructure for any app) or to divvy it up into the individual app repos.
There will always be overlap and interdependencies so there's no easy answer.
Some like to deploy infrastructure changes along with the code and so the latter
method is good for that.  That worries me because there are more variables in
flux. I'd rather have rollouts of infrastructure changes generally go out in
advance (unless there's some reason it can't) of application changes.  And so
the former (all in one repo) is my preference.

---

One thing I haven't found for Linux is a good 'random unicode symbol' entry
system.  On OSX I could easily use key combos (built-in) for the semi-weird
characters (like bullets) and then pull up an "emoji/special characters" window 
that let me select the even weirder characters. 

#tech