
> How can we ensure that the development of artificial intelligence truly
> serves the common good, and is not just used to accumulate wealth and power
> in the hands of a few? This is an urgent question, because this technology is
> already having a real impact on the lives of millions of people, every day
> and in every part of the world. As the Social Doctrine of the Church reminds
> us, and as is clear from the interdisciplinary work you are doing, addressing
> this challenge requires asking an even more fundamental question: What does
> it mean to be human in this moment of history?

> Human beings are called to be co-workers in the work of creation, not merely
> passive consumers of content generated by artificial technology. Our dignity
> lies in our ability to reflect, choose freely, love unconditionally and enter
> into authentic relationships with others. Artificial intelligence has certainly
> opened up new horizons for creativity, but it also raises serious concerns
> about its possible repercussions on humanity’s openness to truth and beauty,
> and capacity for wonder and contemplation. Recognizing and safeguarding what
> characterizes the human person and guarantees his or her balanced growth is
> essential for establishing an adequate framework for managing the consequences
> of artificial intelligence.

> The ability to access vast amounts of data and information should not be
> confused with the ability to derive meaning and value from it.

Pope Leo XIV via [here](https://www.vatican.va/content/leo-xiv/en/speeches/2025/december/documents/20251205-conferenza.html)

#main
