
## Underutilized (by me) (n)vim bindings / commands:

### doing non-_insert_ things while remaining in _insert_ mode:
  - `Ctrl-[`: leave _insert_ mode, same as Esc (and often easier to reach)
  - `Ctrl-o`: one _normal_ command, then back to _insert_.
  - `Ctrl-w`: delete previous word.
  - `Ctrl-u`: delete back to start of line.
  - `Ctrl-h`: backspace, often easier than reaching for Backspace.
  - `Ctrl-t`: increase indent
  - `Ctrl-d`: decrease indent
  - `Ctrl-r 0`: _insert_ last yanked text
  - `S-Right`/`S-Left`: move right/left one word  (could go in section below but I generally

### horizontal motions
  - `gm`: jump to middle of screen
  - `gM`: jump to middle of current line's text
      - `25gM`: jump to the 25% mark of current line's text
  - `;` and `,`: repeat the last `f`/`F`/`t`/`T` search, forward or backward respectively
      - and for treesitter, these are conveniently bound to jump to repeat the last treesitter motion

### misc _normal_ mode
- `R`: replace multiple characters (typing on top of while replacing extant text)
- `H`/`M`/`L`:  move cursor to top, middle, or bottom of window
- `U`: undo any changes in the current line
- `z<CR>` or `zt`:  redraw, current line at top of window
- `z.`	  or `zz`:  redraw, current line at center of window
- `z-`	  or `zb`:  redraw, current line at bottom of window
- `Ctrl-Y` and `Ctrl-E` are handy, moving the view up/down a line _without_ moving the cursor.
    - And strange but cool... in _insert_ mode they copy the character from the above/below line.  Great for csv style editing.
- `ci` for change inner (`ca` for change around)...
    - `ci"` to change content inside a pair of quotation marks
        - and the same for any pair `ci(` or `ci)`  to change content inside parens (and likewise for any other pair
    - `caw` changes a word
    - `cas` change a sentence
    - `cap` change a paragraph
- `q:` command history window
- `q/` search history window  (and `q?` for backward-search history)
-`number G` moves to that line number  (I've always used `:number<Enter>`)

### some direct quotes from the manual on reading and writing files (and system commands)
> To save part of the file, type `v`{normal} motion `:w FILENAME`{vim}. **

> To retrieve the contents of a file, type `:r FILENAME`{vim}.

> NOTE: You can also read the output of an external command. For example,
>         `:r !ls`{vim}
>       reads the output of the `ls` command and puts it below the cursor.


SOME teancdg test one two.

#tech
#vim

