
> “You must not imagine,” says Nicole, “that the life of study is an easy life…
> The reason is that there is nothing more against nature than uniformity and
> stillness, because nothing gives us more occasion to be alone with ourselves.
> Change and external occupations take us out of ourselves and distract us by
> making us forget ourselves. Moreover, this medium of words has always
> something dead about it, it has nothing that piques our self-love or rouses
> our passions strongly. It is devoid of action and movement… It speaks little
> to us of ourselves and gives us little ground for contemplating ourselves
> with pleasure. It affords little encouragement to our hopes; and all this
> tends strangely to mortify our self-love, which, be­ing unsatisfied, causes
> us weariness and distaste in everything that we do.” This analysis, which
> re­calls Pascal’s theory of diversion^1 might take us far. I merely pick out
> the fact that as “weariness and distaste” are in our case formidable enemies,
> we must plan to overcome them.  
>  
> 1: Divertissement: literally, the word means turning aside from ourselves and
> our destiny to find distraction in occupations, amusements, etc. “The whole
> calamity of man” (wrote Pascal) “comes from one single thing, that he cannot
> keep quiet in a room.” That is the cause of all our misfortunes; and if we
> look for the reason of this restlessness we shall find that there is an
> effectual one, the craving to evade the vision of our destiny.

Sertillanges, The Intellectual Life, 215ff. (quoting Nicole, a 17th century French moralist)

#main
