
I've joined the [jujutsu](https://github.com/jj-vcs/jj#jujutsua-version-control-system) fan
club.  While it is rather disorienting to use at first, when coming from
[git](https://git-scm.com/), there are some really interesting ideas that can make life easier.

Here are my favorites:

- No more `git add ...`  Every edit is automatically in a _working copy_ commit.
- Similarly, no more `git rm ...`!  Just remove the file and it becomes untracked/removed in the working copy.
- History:  you can easily `jj undo`/`jj redo` any missteps.
- Stable change IDs: if I edit a commit in git, the hash changes while jj keeps a stable change id.
- No stashing:  Parallel work is more natural.  This is an extension of the
  fact that there's no staging area and changes are automatically committed...
  because of this it's easier to jump back and forth to and from commits
  picking up just where it was left.
- Conflicts are easier to manage.  They are non blocking (no more `rebase --continue`) and can be left in place as long as you
  want.  When they're edited/fixed, they're resolved automatically.
- Works side-by-side with git so one can always hop back to familiar git commands as needed.
- Also I love that outputs automatically show the shorthand prefixes for change IDs and hashes.  Makes for
  easy cli work... often as short as one letter so instead of `jj edit
  svzwsrrq` it's `jj edit s`.  (git doesn't show this automatically though it
  sorta works by uniqueness, e.g. if only one commit started with `a` you could
  type just `a`... but this again is a package deal with stable change IDs.  My
  current task will always be at commit `x` no matter how things change around
  it.

  #tech
